this is radio democracy a series of 12
commentaries by the noted author
and political analyst michael parente
this segment is titled the national
security state at home and abroad
how the fbi cia and other agencies
suppress dissent and endanger democracy
within the government there exists what
some have called the national security
state
it consists of the president the
secretaries of state
secretary of defense the national
security council the joint chiefs of
staff
which is the military heads of all the
various armed forces
and numerous intelligence agencies like
the cia the fbi
and the nsa the national security state
often operates like an unaccountable
sovereign power of its own
its primary function is to defeat
political forces
that seek alternatives to free market
capitalism
at home or abroad or even forces
that might try to introduce any kind of
economically redistributive politics
even within
the existing capitalist framework
u.s national security agencies involve
themselves in political repression
at home and abroad we often think that
the united states is free of the kind of
political crimes assassinations and
death squads that characterize other
countries
well think again the us national
security agencies ally themselves with
criminal elements
either looking the other way when thugs
and assassins do their dirty business
or actively assisting them in third
world countries in europe and even
in the us when agents of the philippine
dictator ferdinand marcos conducted
operations against filipino dissidents
in the u.s
the fbi cooperated with these agents one
known fbi
informant admitted to having witnessed
the murder of two filipino union leaders
who were prominent in the anti-marcos
movement in this country
the fbi also cooperated with el salvador
security forces
supplying them with the names of
salvadoran refugees who were about to be
deported from the u.s
so that the security police could
apprehend them upon their return
in other words the fbi would give the
names to the salvadoran security police
many of these refugees had fled to this
country in the hope of escaping death
and torture
salvador and activists in this country
have endured assaults
kidnappings and numerous car smashings
and apartment break-ins
with threatening notes left after them
and relatives in el salvador
threatened by police the u.s police
hardly bestowed themselves
making no attempts to question
right-wing suspects
individuals in the cuban-american
community
who have advocated a more conciliatory
policy toward the cuban
communist government have been subjected
to threats and attacks
an anti-socialist cuban exile terrorist
group
claimed credit for some 21 bombings
between 1975 and 1980 they publicly they
would leave messages after the bombing
and for the murder of a cuban diplomat
in new york
and yet this group escaped arrest in all
but two instances a car bombing in miami
that cost a cuban radio news direct of
both his legs
also remains unsolved likewise three
haitian
talk show hosts in miami who aired
critical commentaries about military
repression in haiti
were shot dead between 1991 and 93.
in the united states between 1981 and 87
there were 11 fatal shootings of
vietnamese publishers
journalists and activists who had
advocated normalized relations with the
communist government of vietnam
in each instant a us-based group called
vietnamese organization to exterminate
communists and restore the nation
claimed responsibility one of the
group's victims
a publisher of vietnamese language
weekly survived his shooting
and identified the gunman a leader of a
vietnamese extortion gang
the assailant was convicted but the
conviction was reversed
at the prosecutor's request the
prosecutor
because quote he had no prior
criminal record in this country so you
can
murder somebody or attempt to murder
somebody and he had no prior criminal
record
the prosecutor lets you off the police
repeatedly claimed that such attacks
were unrelated and devoid of a political
motive
even though all the victims were people
who were politically active in the
vietnam
issue and despite vietnamese
organization to exterminate communists
despite their communiques claiming
responsibility
they even claimed they were killing
these people for political reasons
and yet the u.s police said they could
not see a pattern
and they didn't really see any political
motive
the fbi refused to get involved
there's the strange case of professor
edward cooperman
an american who was shot dead while
working
in his office at california state
university fullerton
as founder of an organization advocating
scientific cooperation with vietnam
cooperman had received death threats
one lamb van meen a vietnamese emma gray
and cooperman's former student admitted
witnessing the professor's death and was
arrested
as mean tells it cooperman produced a
gun
that accidentally discharged and killed
him
mean left in a panic taking the gun with
isn't that strange he then took a female
friend
to a movie after which he returned to
cooperman's office
and placed the gun in cooperman's hand
this is means testimony the office had
the appearance of a struggle
which means attorney argued resulted
merely from the professor's attempts
to get up after being left for dead
the prosecution introduced little to
dispute means improbable story
it was again a very lackadaisical
prosecution
he was convicted only of involuntary
manslaughter
and sentenced to three years and he
served only one year
it should be pointed out that mean had
been previously arrested for possession
of stolen property
at which time police found guns and
ammunition in his car and home
means lawyer was procured by tran mean
kong spokesman for the right wing
national united front for the liberation
of the vietnam
a right-wing group that has terrorized
vietnamese
in 1987 after a bombing that killed a
vietnamese language publisher in garden
grove california
police finally acknowledged the
existence of right-wing vietnamese
terrorism
and officially requested fbi assistance
the bureau launched an investigation to
determine
quote whether a pattern is emerging
can you imagine if there were killings
by some leftists would they wait
for years and years and say there's no
pattern
other political murders or suspicious
deaths in the united states
include manuel de dios a reporter and
editor who frequently pointed the finger
at big drug dealers and money launderers
there was alan berg a popular denver
talk show host
who engaged in impassioned arguments
with anti-semitic and racist callers
and who was shot by members of a white
supremacist group
there was don boles who at the time of
his murder was involved in an
investigation
of a far-reaching financial scandal said
to implicate
some of arizona's most powerful
political and business leaders
there was karen silkwood who was
investigating radiation safety
negligence at kermage corporation
and there was danny casalaro whose
investigation of government and business
corruption
might have implicated high-ranking
officials casa lara was judged
a suicide even though he was found dead
in a hotel
room in the bathtub and he was
immediately embalmed
before any kind of autopsy could be done
on him despite the family
wanting to investigate and his family
argued that he was not at all depressed
and was not going to commit suicide
didn't like the sight of blood
and was very excited about the
investigation that he was doing
into government and business corruption
none of these murders have been
thoroughly investigated none of them
have been solved
in contrast the fbi was quick to make
arrests
when environmentalist judy barry and
daryl
cherny was seriously injured by a car
bomb in 1990
they acted very quickly they arrested
the victims
barry and cherny calling them quote
radical activists
they charge that the bomb must have
belonged to them they're carrying it in
the car
but the bomb didn't blow up in the back
it was under the seats where they were
driving
barry is an outspoken advocate of
non-violence the fbi said the bomb was
in the back and the photos show the back
of the car
was undamaged the explosion was in the
front
as i said barry her real crime was that
she was an outspoken advocate of
non-violence
and she was an outspoken activist
against the timber companies that were
stripping and destroying
the land the charges were eventually
dropped against barry and cherny for
total lack of evidence
but the fbi named no other suspects
and came up with nothing else just don't
have a clue
as to who could have tried to kill
barry and cherny by the way both of them
still
suffering from disabilities from the
bombing
neo-nazi skinheads and other rightist
terrorists have repeatedly
been able to commit acts of violence and
even publicly claim responsibility
without getting caught
this means law enforcers have made
little effort to
monitor and deter their actions unlike
the way they monitor legal
peaceful groups on the left because if
they were monitored if they were under
surveillance if they'd been infiltrated
their acts of violence would have been
stopped and they would have been caught
and
revealed and prosecuted one would hope
again there's nothing inconsistent about
this position by the way
because left groups no matter how
non-violent and how lawful
they challenged the corporate system of
power money and privilege or some aspect
of its abuses
while right-wing groups generally do the
dirty work for that very same system
thus there's a community of interest
between the far rightists
these little cliques these skinheads and
terrorists and the law agencies
and often also a community of methods
right wingers can get into trouble
sometimes when
right-wing extremists engage in
counterfeiting and bank robberies
and plan attacks against police and
military bases as part of a war against
the government
then law and forces may move against
them
but when they act against individual
citizens or progressive people
they seem to get away with murder
literally
making the world safe for free market
capitalism is a massive
enterprise security agencies expend
about an estimated
28 billion to 30 billion dollars yearly
on
operations at home and abroad congress
has no exact idea how much it allocates
because uh the funds for intelligence
operations are hidden
in other budget items and this is in
violation of the constitution
article 1 section 9 of which reads no
money shall be drawn from the treasury
but in consequences of appropriations
made by
law and a regular statement account of
receipts and expenditures of all public
money shall be published
from time to time and in fact that is
not at all done
with security agencies of the various
units of the national security
state the central intelligence agency or
cia
is the most widely known probably
because of its extensive covert actions
throughout the world
in addition there's the pentagon's
national security agency
ensa created in 1952 by president truman
in an executive order that has remained
secret to this day
nsa's mission is to break codes and
monitor nearly
all telephone calls and telegrams
between the united states and other
countries
and a great deal of domestic telephone
traffic they do it all through these
satellites
there's the pentagon defense
intelligence agencies the dia
which deals with military espionage and
counterintelligence around the world
there's the state department's bureau of
intelligence and research
there's the fbi's counterintelligence
program within the pentagon itself every
echelon
be it the office of the secretary of
defense the army navy air force or the
regional commands around the globe
or base units each one of them has its
own intelligence service
with its own security communications and
support services
while supposedly protecting us from
foreign threats the various intelligence
agencies spend a good deal of time
policing and propagating views among the
u.s public
they have admitted they maintained
surveillance on members of congress the
white house
the treasury and commerce departments
they become a state within the state
they've maintained surveillance on vast
numbers of private citizens
they have planted stories in the u s
media to support their
counter-insurgency view of the world
secretly enlisting the cooperation of
newspaper owners
media network bosses and hundreds of
journalists and editors
the cia alone has subsidized the
publication
of hundreds of books and has owned
outright more than
230 or so wire services newspapers
magazines
and book publishing complexes according
to a senate intelligence committee
report
the cia has recruited some 5 000
academicians from across the country
as spies and researchers secretly
financing
and censoring their work cia agents
participate in academic conferences
and the agency conducts its own resident
scholar
programs it even recruits students
on the campus it offers internships and
tuition assistance
to undergraduate and graduate students
while they're still attending school
intelligence agencies have infiltrated
and financed
student labor scientific and peace
groups
the cia has financed research on mind
control drugs
sometimes on unsuspecting persons and
was responsible
for the death of at least one government
employee
in violation of the national security
act of 1947
which says that the cia shall have no
police
subpoena law enforcement or internal
security functions
because congress was afraid of building
up a secret military police in their own
country
it's okay for them to work that way in
other countries but not here
despite that stricture in that security
act of 47
the agency has equipped and trained
local police forces in the u.s
under president reagan's executive order
the cia was authorized to conduct
domestic surveillance and covert
operations against u.s citizens
both in the united states and abroad and
in fact you're listening to one of those
citizens right now
under the freedom of information act i
got a file for my fbi and it had
a whole section from the cia at least
the cia told me they sent it to the fbi
the order still in effect as of 1994
95 also authorizes intelligence agencies
to train and support
local police and enter secret contracts
with corporations
academic institutions other
organizations and
individuals for the provision of
services and goods
this is president reagan's executive
order i'm talking about
which president clinton is living with
quite comfortably
us intelligence agencies have
perpetrated terrible crimes against the
peoples of other nations
in countries like guatemala greece
brazil chile
indonesia argentina zaire the
philippines
u.s national security forces have used
military intervention
terror sabotage bribery
propaganda and assassination to bring
down
populist or democratically elected
governments and
install reactionary dictatorships
friendly to u.s
corporate interests countries that
embarked upon popular revolutions
such as nicaragua mozambique and angola
found their economies and peoples
devastated by the murderous assaults
of u.s supported mercenary armies
in angola over 1.5 million people have
been killed in a
cia-supported civil war against the
progressive government of angola and its
people
the cia has sabotaged and stolen
elections abroad
the cia has waged massive disinformation
campaigns
infiltrated and fractured trade union
movements of other nations it has funded
and trained
secret armies paramilitary forces
torture squads
and death squads and and the cia has
pursued destabilization and
assassination campaigns
against labor peasant religious clergy
and student organizations in numerous
nations now these see these squads don't
kill at random
they kill those people who are in any
way
trying to better the lot of the poor
against the privileges of the rich
after world war ii u.s intelligence
agencies put thousands of nazi war
criminals and their collaborators on the
u.s payroll
utilizing them in repressive operations
against the left in latin america and
elsewhere
murderers far from being exempted from
such protection
seem to have been among those most
likely to
obtain this protection a network of
eastern european fascists
anti-semites racists and nazi
collaborators
found a home in the ethnic outreach
program of
the republican party george bush in fact
in 1992 campaign
had to get rid of a few of them when it
finally made the national media
u.s intelligence agencies have used
mobsters drug dealers
and warlords in their war against those
who resist the encroachments of global
corporatism the cia supplied
arms and money to the italian and
corsican mafias
to beat and murder members of
communist-led dock workers unions in
italy and france
after these unions were broken the
mobsters and they were broken with
terror
and violence and murder the mobsters
were given a freer hand
in transporting tons of heroin each year
from asia
to western europe and north
the cia buttressed anti-communist
warlords
in southeast asia and afghanistan
whose opium production increased tenfold
soon after the agency moved into these
regions according to the washington post
likewise cia involvement in central
america contributed to the u.s cocaine
epidemic of the 1980s
cia planes transported guns and supplies
down to right-wing mercenary troops in
nicaragua and pro-capitalist military
leaders in other countries
the planes then were reloaded with
narcotics
for the return trip to the united states
this by the way is a matter of public
record and as a finding of at least
three
congressional investigative committees
cia operatives participated with mafia
associates
and business and political leaders to
profit from the multi-billion dollar
savings and loan swindles
monies gained from such deals along with
drug money laundered
through various banks and other
financial institutions
were illegally used to finance cia
covert
activities and line the park pockets
of various people in the field
there exists enormous evidence a
mountain of evidence accumulated over
30 years suggesting that elements of the
intelligence community
assisted by certain mobsters were
involved in the assassination of
president john kennedy
in 1963 and in the subsequent
massive cover-up kennedy was considered
a dangerous liability
by the intelligence community and
right-wing groups
because of what were perceived as his
liberal foreign
and domestic policies including his
unwillingness to pursue an all-out
ground war in indochina
and escalate the war his determination
to bring the intelligence community
under tighter controls and his other
various policies
his pursuit of a rapprochement with the
soviet union was also
another consideration which uh incurred
the ire of right-wing groups
if in fact there was no conspiracy
why has there been so much cover-up why
have the archives been sealed
for 60 70 80 years and why so much
official resistance against
opening them if there's nothing to hide
what are they hiding
x-rays mrs kennedy's description of the
wounds and the shots
oswald's links with military
intelligence even
oswald's tax returns on and on and on
ago
in 1982 at the urging of the reagan
administration
congress passed a law that made it a
crime to publish
any information that might lead to
the disclosure of the identities of
present and past
intelligence agents and informers even
if the information came from already
published sources
what this means is that under the law
some journalistic exposures
of illegal covert activities themselves
become illegal
it's been argued that a strong
intelligence system is needed to gather
information for policy makers
will be safer and more secure that way
but the cia and some other agencies have
been involved in something more than
just
gathering information they've been
involved in covert actions
that go beyond intelligence gathering
and any lawful mandate
they've been involved in economic and
military sabotage
disinformation campaigns directed
against the u s public itself
drug trafficking and mercenary wars
assassinations
and other terrorist acts against
numerous nations
and literally tens and hundreds of
thousands of people
let me quote what one former cia officer
wrote his name ralph mcgehee in a book
called deadly deceits quote
my view backed by 25 years of experience
is that quite
simply that the cia is the covert action
arm of the presidency
much of its money manpower and energy go
into covert operations
that include backing dictators and
overthrowing
democratically elected governments the
cia uses disinformation
much of it aimed at the u.s public to
mold opinion
but if the agency actually reported the
truth about the third world
what would it say i'm still quoting
mcgee he goes on
he says it would say that the united
states installs foreign leaders
arms their armies and empowers their
police to help these leaders repress
an angry defiant people that the c i a
empowered leaders represent only a small
fraction
who kill torture and impoverish their
own people
to maintain their position of privilege
the cia
plants weapons shipments forges
documents
broadcasts false propaganda and
transforms reality
thus it creates a new reality that it
then believes
unquote what we should do
and what congress should do is abolish
the cia
and the entire national security state
congress should drastically cut the
budgets of national security agencies
limit their mandates to intelligence
gathering prohibit gangs to covert
actions against third world social
movements
and impeach those executive officers who
failed to obey the lawful limits imposed
on them
the power of the executive to act with
criminally violent effect
against various peoples throughout the
third world and throughout the world
including our own people here at home
this power should be exposed
challenged and stopped the freedom of
information act should be enforced
instead of undermined by those who say
they have nothing to hide then try to
hide almost everything they do
end the u.s sponsored counterinsurgency
wars against the poor of the world
we need to eliminate all foreign aid to
regimes
engaged in oppression of their own
peoples the billions of u.s tax dollars
that flow into the swiss bank accounts
of foreign autocrats
and militarists could be better spent on
human services here at home
lift the trade and travel bans imposed
on cuba and
other countries that have dared to
deviate from the free market
orthodoxy under the guise of fighting
communism
and quote protecting u.s interests the
purveyors of state power have committed
horrendous crimes against the people of
this
and other countries violating human
rights and the constitution
in order to make the world safe for
privilege and power
the ancient question of political
philosophy who guards the guardians
remains
with us the national security state
continues to operate like a state within
the state
a law unto itself and it should be
abolished in the name of democracy
you heard the national security state at
home and abroad
part 6 of a 12-part series of
commentaries by michael parente
michael parente is the author of many
books among them
democracy for the few inventing reality
against empire and dirty truths
here is a brief preview of our next
issue of radio democracy
it's a widely accepted belief in this
country that the press
suffers from a liberal bias television
pundits
radio talk show hosts and political
leaders
help propagate this belief dissident
media critics who think otherwise
who maintain that the corporate owned
press exercises a conservative grip on
news and commentary
such dissidents are allowed almost no
exposure in the supposedly liberal
media michael parente coming up on the
next segment of radio democracy
for a copy of this talk and one other by
michael parente
please send four dollars for one
cassette and ask for part
six the national security state at home
and abroad
for the entire 12-part series on six
cassettes
send twenty four dollars that's six
cassettes for twenty four dollars
to people's video audio post office box
nine nine five four
seattle washington 98199
usa that's people's video audio
post office box 99514
seattle washington 98199
usa